README.md, before:

# KillrWeather Event Store

KillrWeather is a reference application (which is adopted from [Datastax's original application](https://github.com/killrweather/killrweather)) showing how to easily leverage and integrate
[DB2 Event Store](https://www.ibm.com/us-en/marketplace/db2-event-store) [IBM Data Science Experience local](https://datascience.ibm.com/local),
[Apache Spark](http://spark.apache.org), [Akka](https://akka.io/), [Apache Kafka](http://kafka.apache.org),
and [Grafana](https://grafana.com/) for fast, streaming computations. This application focuses on the use case of **[time series data](https://github.com/killrweather/killrweather/wiki/4.-Time-Series-Data-Model)**.

This application also can be viewed as a prototypical IoT (or sensors) data collection application, which stores data in the form of a time series.

> **Disclaimer:** This sample application is provided as-is, without warranty. It is intended to illustrate techniques for implementing various scenarios using Fast Data Platform, but it has not gone through a robust validation process, nor does it use all the techniques commonly employed for highly-resilient, production applications. Please use it with appropriate caution.

## Sample Use Case

_I need fast access to real time data to analyze it, execute machine learning and leverage these models for predictive analytics._


## Reference Implementation

Overall architecture of the implementation looks as follows

![](diagrams/KillrWeatherES.png)


There are several modules in this application:
* [KillrWeather App](https://github.com/lightbend/fdp-killrweather-event-store/tree/develop/killrweather-app/src/main)
is based on Spark Streaming and is responsible for basic processing of incoming data and storing it to the IBM DB2 Event Store
* [Data Loader](https://github.com/lightbend/fdp-killrweather-event-store/tree/develop/killrweather-loader/src/main)
is a data loader (sensor simulator) for killrweather application, based on Akka Stream.
* [Model Listener](https://github.com/lightbend/fdp-killrweather-event-store/tree/develop/killrweather-modellistener/src/main)
is a model updates HTTP listener based on Akka Streams, responsible for accepting model updates from IBM DSX.
* [Model Server](https://github.com/lightbend/fdp-killrweather-event-store/tree/develop/killrweather-modelserver/src/main)
is an implementation of model serving, based on Akka Streams, responsible for weather prediction based on the model, generated leveraging IBM DSX.

## Configuring application

Application is configured using [typesafe config](https://github.com/lightbend/config).
Configuration file are located at the resources directory of every module. Examples of these config files are provided.


## Building and configuring applications

Applications are build using SBT and leverages [SBT Docker plugin](https://github.com/marcuslonnberg/sbt-docker).
It supports several commands:
* `sbt docker` builds a docker image locally
* `sbt dockerPush` pushes an image to the dockerHub
* `sbt dockerBuildAndPush` builds image and pushes it to the dockerHub
The SBt is building the following images:
````
lightbend/killrweatherappes                   1.2.0                           4fe93e7b6101        Less than a second ago   1.49GB
lightbend/modelserveres                       1.2.0                           0e400d0aa5bc        Less than a second ago   697MB
lightbend/modellisteneres                     1.2.0                           40ce669a50bd        Less than a second ago   601MB
lightbend/loader                              1.2.0                           d7c4e11a1627        Less than a second ago   577MB
````

## Deploying appliccation to FDP

The following templates for deploying application to DC/OS are provided.
* [KillrWeather App](https://github.com/lightbend/fdp-killrweather-event-store/blob/develop/killrweather-app/src/main/resources/killrweatherAppDocker.json.template)
* [Data Loader](https://github.com/lightbend/fdp-killrweather-event-store/blob/develop/killrweather-loader/src/main/resources/killrweatherloaderDocker.json.template)
* [Model Listener](https://github.com/lightbend/fdp-killrweather-event-store/blob/develop/killrweather-modellistener/src/main/resources/killrweatheModelListenerDocker.json.template)
* [Model Server](https://github.com/lightbend/fdp-killrweather-event-store/blob/develop/killrweather-modelserver/src/main/resources/killrweatheModelServerDocker.json.teplate)

## See What's Going On...

Commit message:

Added missing commands... Fixed bug were a template file was misnamed as a "teplate" file!

README.md, after:

# KillrWeather Event Store

KillrWeather is a reference application (which is adopted from [Datastax's original application](https://github.com/killrweather/killrweather)) showing how to easily leverage and integrate
[DB2 Event Store](https://www.ibm.com/us-en/marketplace/db2-event-store) [IBM Data Science Experience local](https://datascience.ibm.com/local),
[Apache Spark](http://spark.apache.org), [Akka](https://akka.io/), [Apache Kafka](http://kafka.apache.org),
and [Grafana](https://grafana.com/) for fast, streaming computations. This application focuses on the use case of **[time series data](https://github.com/killrweather/killrweather/wiki/4.-Time-Series-Data-Model)**.

This application also can be viewed as a prototypical IoT (or sensors) data collection application, which stores data in the form of a time series.

> **Disclaimer:** This sample application is provided as-is, without warranty. It is intended to illustrate techniques for implementing various scenarios using Fast Data Platform, but it has not gone through a robust validation process, nor does it use all the techniques commonly employed for highly-resilient, production applications. Please use it with appropriate caution.

## Sample Use Case

_I need fast access to real time data to analyze it, execute machine learning and leverage these models for predictive analytics._


## Reference Implementation

Overall architecture of the implementation looks as follows

![](diagrams/KillrWeatherES.png)


There are several modules in this application:
* [KillrWeather App](https://github.com/lightbend/fdp-killrweather-event-store/tree/develop/killrweather-app/src/main)
is based on Spark Streaming and is responsible for basic processing of incoming data and storing it to the IBM DB2 Event Store
* [Data Loader](https://github.com/lightbend/fdp-killrweather-event-store/tree/develop/killrweather-loader/src/main)
is a data loader (sensor simulator) for killrweather application, based on Akka Stream.
* [Model Listener](https://github.com/lightbend/fdp-killrweather-event-store/tree/develop/killrweather-modellistener/src/main)
is a model updates HTTP listener based on Akka Streams, responsible for accepting model updates from IBM DSX.
* [Model Server](https://github.com/lightbend/fdp-killrweather-event-store/tree/develop/killrweather-modelserver/src/main)
is an implementation of model serving, based on Akka Streams, responsible for weather prediction based on the model, generated leveraging IBM DSX.

## Configuring application

Application is configured using [typesafe config](https://github.com/lightbend/config).
Configuration file are located at the resources directory of every module. Examples of these config files are provided.


## Building and configuring applications

Applications are build using SBT and leverages [SBT Docker plugin](https://github.com/marcuslonnberg/sbt-docker).
It supports several commands:
* `sbt docker` builds a docker image locally
* `sbt dockerPush` pushes an image to the dockerHub
* `sbt dockerBuildAndPush` builds image and pushes it to the dockerHub
The SBt is building the following images:
````
lightbend/killrweatherappes                   1.2.0                           4fe93e7b6101        Less than a second ago   1.49GB
lightbend/modelserveres                       1.2.0                           0e400d0aa5bc        Less than a second ago   697MB
lightbend/modellisteneres                     1.2.0                           40ce669a50bd        Less than a second ago   601MB
lightbend/loader                              1.2.0                           d7c4e11a1627        Less than a second ago   577MB
````

## Deploying The applications to FDP

The following templates for deploying application to DC/OS are provided:

* KillrWeather App: `killrweather-app/src/main/resources/killrweatherAppDocker.json.template`
* Data Loader: `killrweather-loader/src/main/resources/killrweatherloaderDocker.json.template`
* Model Listener: `killrweather-modellistener/src/main/resources/killrweatheModelListenerDocker.json.template`
* Model Server: `killrweather-modelserver/src/main/resources/killrweatheModelServerDocker.json.template`

If you are looking at this code as distributed with a Fast Data Platform release, you'll also have corresponding JSON files. The only difference is occurrences of the string `FDP_VERSION` has been replaced with the actual version string.

If you are looking at the git repo itself, then run the following script to generate the JSON files from the templates, using an appropriate value for `VERSION`, e.g., `1.2.0`:

```bash
./process-templates.sh VERSION
```

Now you can deploy these apps to Fast Data Platform, starting with the loader:

```bash
dcos marathon app add killrweather-loader/src/main/resources/killrweatherloaderDocker.json
dcos marathon app add killrweather-modelserver/src/main/resources/killrweatheModelServerDocker.json
dcos marathon app add killrweather-modellistener/src/main/resources/killrweatheModelListenerDocker.json
dcos marathon app add killrweather-app/src/main/resources/killrweatherAppDocker.json
```

## See What's Going On...
